Israel has called on Palestinians to
evacuate more parts of Rafa as well as
two neighborhoods in Northern Gaza the
Israeli military says more than 300,000
people in Rafa have already fled the
area as fighting between Israeli troops
and Palestinian militants intensifies in
the southern region which borders Egypt
heavy clashes there have left crucial
Aid Crossings in accessible according to
the Israeli military Hamas is trying to
rebuild its capabilities in the north of
Gaza journalist Sami s joins me from
Jerusalem hello Sami is this the start
of Israel's long stated plan to attack
the remaining Hamas forces in
Rafa well on Thursday night there was a
cabinet meeting a security political
cabinet and there was also a meeting of
the uh smaller War cabinet and in both
of these forums uh they decided to go
ahead with this offensive in Rafa but
they did not say whether this is the
beginning of the a major escalation or
whether this will be a limited attack
and I think that we will have to see in
the uh forcoming days the the scope of
this right uh the US has warned Israel
against launching the full skill
invasion of Rafa is the Israeli
government worried about losing support
from its main Ally if it
does for sure there are grave concerns
uh in Israel uh regarding the uh the the
threats by the American
Administration uh but I I can tell you
many people here in Israel they view uh
these statements that are coming out of
Washington as statements that are linked
to the internal politics in the United
States and namely the upcoming November
elections they're saying that inside the
United States um Biden is concerned that
the ONG gring protests in the
universities uh against the Israeli War
in Gaza is going to cost him the
upcoming elections and therefore he's
making these statements uh but that
after the elections whether it will be
Republicans Or democrats it would be
more like business as usual right right
uh there have been more protests calling
for the Israeli government to do more to
get hostages released how much pressure
is the government
under yeah well today the relatives of
the hostages uh they stage a protest in
Tel AV in which they were uh putting all
the the blame on prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu and they were saying that so
long Benjamin Netanyahu is the prime
minister of Israel their relatives will
not be released uh from captivity and
that the first thing that has to be done
is the removal of nany they called the
other members of the government to leave
this government they're saying that this
government is not acting to release the
hostage but is rather a aiming at the
war in in Rafa and I I can tell you that
even though majority of the public in
Israel support some kind of a a prisoner
swap a hostage swap the base the
political right-wing base is actually in
favor of these kinds of operations in
RAF and this is where netan is getting
his political support DW correspondent
Aya Ibraham joins me now from Jerusalem
Aya is there a sense there that this
renewed evacuation order in Rafa is a
sign that Israel is about to launch a
major offensive there despite
international calls not to do
so well Israel Israeli officials and the
prime minister of Israel have been
cleared that going into Rafa is a
priority uh for them that uh that Israel
would uh continue with these plans
despite as you mentioned International
uh warnings from the International
Community not to do so and in fact
warnings from uh Israel's uh closest
allies the United Ally the United States
not uh uh to do so so far um Israel has
been operating in uh Rafa but uh with
air strikes that they claim are targeted
air strikes but we are talking about uh
an area that is uh very much dense uh
densely populated with over 2 million
people Sheltering in that southernmost
part of the strip and there have been
tanks uh as you mentioned um at the uh
at the at the border crossing between uh
Rafa and Egypt on the uh Gaza side of uh
the border and certainly uh these new
evacuation orders and the images that
we're uh seeing right now with people um
rushing out of that southernmost area
seems to suggest that an operation is H
eminent however analysts have also
suggested that
um this Invasion eminent Invasion on
Rafa something that's a little bit more
uh invasive than what we've seen so far
is a bargaining chip for uh the Israelis
um as it is now certainly the last
uh what they say is the last uh part of
the strip where uh there are there are
still Hamas uh uh battalions so it's
it's unclear but certainly um something
that they've said that the Israelis have
said they are
willing and prepared to continue with
just out of curiosity how did the people
in Rafa get the latest evacuation
orders well according to uh eyewitness
reports uh they've gotten them through
text uh or even phone calls uh there are
also leaflets that are uh often being uh
dropped in these areas as a way to warn
uh people that's what um Israel always
says is it's its attempt to try and um
you know minimize civilian harm and to
get civilians out of Harm's Way But as
human humanitarian organizations have
also been saying that um this you know
warning people when there's no real safe
place to go or no place where the basic
needs survival exist uh is is is is
useless in a way because where are these
people these hundreds of thousands if
not Millions supposed to go in a in a
tiny piece of land that has been under a
constant bomb bombardment for almost
seven months
now okay that is Aya Ibraham in
Jerusalem many thanks you
Aya now the UN Security Council is
calling for an independent investigation
into reports of mass Graves found near
hospitals raided by Israel in Gaza Hamas
accuses Israel of killing the victims
and burying them but Israel says
Palestinians buried the bodies a warning
this report contains the stress and
content rescue workers uncovered dozens
of bodies at alifa
hospital over the past few weeks
hundreds of corpses have already been
found in gaza's
North and in the south at Nasa Hospital
in
hunis people have been coming to see if
their missing loved ones are among the
Dead
my husband has been missing for about a
month and we've been searching for him
he didn't used to go out much he would
only leave to bring us food and water
he's been missing since the Israeli Army
entered hunas and we've been searching
for him but to no
avail under International humanitarian
law health facilities and hospitals are
entitled to special prote ctions during
war the United Nations says it's deeply
alarmed by the reports of mass Graves it
is imperative that independent
International investigators with
forensic expertise are allowed the
immediate access to the sides of these
Mass Graves to establish the precise
circumstances under which hundreds of
Palestinians lost their lives and were
buried or
reburied the families of the de and
missing have a right to know what
happened there are competing narratives
around several of these Mass Graves
including serious allegations that some
of those buried were unlawfully
killed Israel says Palestinians buried
the bodies and that Israeli forces
examined them while searching for the
remains of hostages taken by Hamas in
the October 7th Terror
attacks the Hamas run civil defense
accuses Israel of killing and burying
them Israel had carried out raids in
both hospitals alleging Hamas militants
used them as command centers and to hold
hostages Mass grave excavations are
complex and the sites have already being
disturbed uncovering the truth of what
happened here could prove difficult